[Music]
they reach a depth of 80 meters this is
the spot where tyranny thinks they're
most likely to see sunfish oh okay so
hola guys right two meters eighty-three
meters
oh my gosh just an hour into their dive
and the team has found a sunfish
they've never observed one this deep
before
it's really elegant despite the fact
that it just looks like a big dinner
plate with two effects on either size
sunfish can grow to be over three metres
long and weighed two and a half tons
it's the world's largest bony fish as it
grows it gains an incredible 1 kilogram
per day
it's mean food is jellyfish so T Ernie
thinks sunfish might be venturing down
here to feed owner but today that after
something else
some fish skin carries as many as 40
different parasites but tiny organisms
are removed by cleaner fish
without this cleaning service sunfish
would become infested with parasites
compromising their health this is the
first time that such behavior has been
seen at depth in Galapagos
like it's sort of it in another world
right now it doesn't it doesn't seem
like it's very aware of what's going on
around it by taking that unusual
attitude it's saying to everybody who
could potentially clean it I'm ready for
my spa treatment come in and exfoliate
me I'm not gonna eat you I'm I'm at
peace and come do you things for me they
underscore how everybody plays a role
everyone is what makes this system tick
[Music]
winds and currents sweep up the chaos of
the storm into long lines of debris not
just flotsam everything is gathered up
including Turtles this is a green turtle
the loggerhead will encounter many of
them on her journey they all go along
the lines of debris and edges of
currents their busy highways here in the
doldrums famous for its become sailors
the ocean sweepings stretch visibly for
hundreds of miles
nutrients churned up by the storm feed
clouds of microscopic plants
phytoplankton minuscule green worlds a
teaspoon of ocean contains thousands of
eggs and larvae like seeds waiting for
spring tiny animals magically appear
jellies mice its krill
clouds of plankton makeup worldwide half
of life on Earth
[Music]
it feeds the ocean
fish appear as if from nowhere
the schools gather around anything for
protection
even this disconcerted turtle
[Music]
the only other place for fish to hide is
behind each other looking for them are
the most intelligent predators in the
ocean
[Music]
these are spinners inhundred strong
super pots
calling to each other coordinating the
hunting
[Music]
and spinning
are they getting their bearings
communicating shedding parasites or is
it just exuberance we don't know it may
not look like it but this is a coral
scientists believe it's glowing is an
equivalent of sunscreen
[Music]
[Applause]
Carles avalue living in their cells as
these photos emphasize it receives food
for the Carl but too much ultraviolet
light can damage them so the corals
protect themselves special protein
absorbs the ultraviolet light and
re-emits light of another color by day
the Sun is too bright for this to be
visible
a shining blue light and corals at night
shows their florescent response
[Applause]
it's a much-needed defense mechanism
when there is no escape for the
midsummer Sun a tiny island lost in the
midst of the Pacific it's the tip of a
huge mountain that rises precipitously
from the seafloor thousands of metres
below
the nearest land is 300 miles away
isolated seamounts like this one create
a a seas where life can flourish in the
comparatively empty expanses of the open
ocean
but all the creatures that swim beside
it would not be here were it not for one
key factor the deep ocean currents
far below the surface they collide with
the islands flanks and are deflected
upwards bringing with them from the
depths a rich soup of nutrients
such upwellings attract great
concentrations of life
[Music]
most of the fish here are permanent
residents feeding on the plankton a tiny
floating plants and animals that
announced by the richness brought up
from the depth and they in turn attract
visitors from the open ocean
- nah
[Music]
[Applause]
the plankton feeders are easy targets
all this action attracts even larger
predators
sharks hundreds of sharks these silky
sharks are normally ocean-going species
but the sea mounts in the eastern
Pacific like Koko small pillow and the
Galapagos attract silk is in huge groups
up to five hundred strong
[Music]
silkiest seemed to specialize in taking
injured fish and constantly circle sea
mounts on the lookout for the chance to
do so
but suckers are not the only visitors
hammerheads gather in some of the
largest shark shoals to be found
anywhere in the ocean sometimes
thousands will circle over a sink or sea
mount
but these sharks are not here for food
they have come for another reason
some of the locals provide a cleaning
service
following the last i'll nino year when a
rise in water temperatures caused many
sharks to suffer from fungal infections
the number of hammerheads visiting the
sea mounts reached record levels
[Music]
[Applause]